Now so that we have created the class and function now we will be creating to to get methods for the
title and the duration.
So it is going to be like public strings get title as this is forgetting the title of the song and inside
which we are going to return the title.
So basically this function is going to return in the title of the song return title as we have declared
the name as string title.
This function is going to return and this is going to return the duration.
And the duration is double.
Like the body types or double.
And get the duration.
Get duration.
It is going to be in camel case.
And then return the duration of the song.
In the form of double.
So I hope you must have understood that what is this function doing and what this part is going to return
to the compiler?
Now we have like collected the title of the song and the duration of the song from the class.
Now we have to bind this as this like we have to bind this inside this brace as a string.
This complete part is a string.
This song is a class which we have created, and inside this song we are like outputting the title and
duration as a string.
So we will convert the double like it is already a string.
The title, but the double will be returned in the form of double like or decimal thing.
So we have to fourthly convert into a string and then return.
So we have to call the two string method in Java and the two string method will be responsible for converting
the duration and the title and bind them and then output them as a string as a whole.
So for string, we have to call the override method as we are going to convert the class.
So we have to again create a public string.
Public string to string to string basically is a method in Java which is used to convert the other data
types into a string output.
So inside this two string class, I am going to return.
The song.
And like this song and we have a brace.
So inside the brace.
And to call a variable, we have to add this plus sign.
Inside the brace we have the title, the title string and the variable title like the.
Firstly, close this.
Is equal to dash and the title is called As Plus.
Title variable, which we declared in the class.
Again Plus.
Inside this.
So like line changer and which is going to be enclosed inside a single inverted comma.
Then again, a plus.
And this is going to close the title part.
So closing this with double inverted comma once and we are done with the title part now doing the same
for the duration, like the duration is similar as the title.
So duration double quotes plus the duration variable.
Just a single double chord and no duration variable, as we said.
So duration.
And the press is closed.
So closing the brace inside a single inverted comma and then closing the statement.
So the race part is completed, as far as I can see that.
So we have completed this two string method which will be converting the duration and title as the string
in the hole.
So this is the song, this is the Brace, the title, which we called Inside the String and the title
of the song, after which A Space and the Duration Double.
So the double is converted in the form of string with the help of this tool string.
So as far I can see that we have completed the song class.
Now we will switch to the album class.
So let me create the album Java file first.
So selecting the new file option inside the stacks folder as well as I already told you that all the
files involved in this project will be stored inside the CRC folder.
So inside the CRC folder I am going to create a new file and we'll name it as album dot Java.
So we have successfully created the album class and now we'll start creating the function inside this
class as well.
So now that we have created the album class calling function, let us firstly declare the variables
which are going to be used.
The variables are object inside the class.
I already told you about what objects are the real world entities which are the consistence of class.
So private string name.
And.
Artist private string like or which artist has sung the song with us for that.
So the album will contain a name in the string format and artist in the string format, and the list
of songs inside the album is going to be displayed as an added list.
So at least in the very useful concept inside Java.
Let me firstly import this library which consists this red list feature.
So it is inside that java you can add a list package.
Yes, we have successfully imported the ArrayList Library and creating that list.
Name it as some.
The list name is going to be songs and it is going to contain songs simply so.
There are no errors as far as I can see there.
So let us quickly talk about list like what actually are lists and what is it is going to do in this
project.
So after creating this and initializing all the objects, now we are going to talk about ArrayList.
So we have more data structure as we all have heard about it, to store a list of things, we use arrays.
So you must be wondering that why we are not storing the song inside the array and array list.
What is the consequence of using this list?
So let me tell you first that an array is a limited size.
The array has a limited size, it has a fixed size.
We cannot increase the size and alter the elements inside the array.
So this is a foundation like we can say that this is limitation of array, which is preventing us from
using array in this project.
So what is the benefit of using ArrayList?
ArrayList is similar as an array.
It is used for storing multiple data data types like it could be a string like what we say float double
integer or anything.
So storing multiple data types and the main feature of ArrayList is that it is resizable.
The size of array is immutable, but the size of ArrayList is mutable.
We can increase the size of a list according to our needs.
Like suppose.
Currently our playlist contains only five songs and we want to increase the size of the song list in
future.
So in array it is not possible to increase the size it is fixed, but if we are using array list we
can increase like we do not have to set a size in the beginning in array.
We have to set the size by in the meantime of declaring that what size, maximum size the add is going
to be.
But there is nothing like this in list.
So yes, these are the benefits of using ArrayList.
We are going to store the songs inside this list called Array List, and this is with the mercy of this
library of Java Inside Java Utility List.
So we have covered what ArrayList is.
Now we are going to create a function.
Inside this album class like we have named it.
So the function is going to be public album.
And the arguments are like the name of the album as a string.
The artist as a string.
And.
The third one is the list of songs.
And which is going to be a ArrayList data type.
So we have called those two arguments and now we are going to call the third argument ArrayList.
The second one here in the list.
The suggestions are suggesting the suggestions are very useful.
They helps us and saves a lot of time while writing the code.
So we have successfully called all the three arguments inside the function.
Now, inside this function, in the similar way we have called the songs like we can see that we have
called this using this title and the start duration.
This is the method of calling objects from a class inside Java.
So this thought name is going to be name.
Similarly, this artist is going to be.
I best.
Hmm.
Our test.
This is the method of accessing objects.
Inside of function.
We have already used it in the song class.
Now we are using it in the album also.
So all the stuff here is quite bit relatable.
We can say that.
And you do not have to make much effort.
While learning Java.
Java is such an interesting language.
It has everything.
Inside its libraries.
So this is like new ArrayList song.
So the list is accessed using a new keyword.
This is a method of calling the ArrayList inside the function.
So we have successfully imported all the three arguments, like we have successfully called them inside
the function.
Now I am going to create or construct called album.
It is a good practice to initialize the constructor in the beginning, even if we have no use.
Okay.
As far as I can see that that we have successfully created our two classes named song and album.
So after creating the song and album, we have to start adding songs to the project and this will be
going to happen with the help of Add the song function.
And then we are going to find the songs like we have to print the list, as you can see that in the
second slide.
Yes.
So we have to find the songs like which are the songs present in the leaves list?
And what are its durations?
So we are going to make a dedicated function for finding the songs and for like adding the songs to
the list.
So see you in the next part.